5% of the world can even code and much
fewer can build a great product like
Mati and his co-founder right so I
decided let's build something for the
99% and not this productivity boost for
developers and that's going to be a
completely new type of interface so here
we don't give any timelines we do
research initiatives we want to plan you
need to stay nimble that like the moment
it comes out you have 24 hours to start
integrating that into your product
that's like the most important time to
really to really be ahead
>> [music]
>> Okay, this is a real treat. Um, I
interviewed two friends of mine, Matty
from 11 Labs and Anton from Lovable. two
terrific CEOs and companies that are
absolutely ripping and they're both
doing it from ye old Europe. So, we're
going to get into it on the Europe
thing, but there's some topics that are
just terrific. These two are kind of
blossoming before our eyes. They're
right in the the heart of hyperrowth.
And we get to see like how they think
about co-founders, how they're thinking
about delegation and letting go, how
they're thinking about building their
exec teams, managing all the chaos
coming in at them. When you're in
hyperrowth, there's just a lot of chaos
and really just pushing to keep the
speed up. It's a really good episode. I
hope you enjoy it and I'll be back at
the end with my takes. Okay, you two are
in your early 30s, similar ages. Uh
you've got some very good experience
under your belt. Um a lot of founders
I'm meeting and a lot of founders
getting funded are right in school,
right out of school, 21, 22. What would
your companies be like if you had
started them when you were 21 or 22?
I'll let you go.
>> Well, I think I think it would be have
have been hard. Uh I think it still
would have the pleasure of working with
my co-founder. I know him since high
school. Okay.
>> Uh so we always were best friends. We
did everything together.
>> This is Mati from 11 Labs.
>> Exactly. So uh so uh I'm working across
voice AI research and product
deployment. We are on a mission to
create the voice of technology. Um so I
think I still would have started without
that with my co-founder which would have
been the advantage. The disadvantage is
I don't know how I would approach the
first customers. How the world like at
the time I didn't even know the world of
entrepreneurship existed. So I studied
mathematics. uh when you study
mathematics the clear career paths you
take is either finance or consulting. I
chose finance. I joined Black Rockck. Um
and then of only after Black Rockck I
learned about Palunteer uh and decided
to join them where it turned out you can
actually be deployed with the customer,
learn about the problems, try to
understand those problems and bring them
back and build a product which was like
the first glimpse into how to build
something from scratch. Uh but before
that was still some further out of I
didn't know how to approach. Um so I
don't think I would be able to
understand the first early dynamics of
starting something in the same way.
>> Okay. you're several hundred million in
revenue. If you would started right out
of school with your buddy,
where would you be?
>> Nowhere.
>> You know, the other thing I I think we
would have probably worked on a very
different idea. I think it took
>> the of course the pleasure of having the
the co-ounder I know inside out. Um then
over the years got experience of working
at other companies which helped us
understand some of the dynamics. He also
at Google at Palanteer. So we understand
how to build things at scale. But then
the third thing which I think was the
most important was was the idea. And of
course through the years we looked into
different projects from trying to build
a crypto risk analyzer during the crypto
days which was really hard uh to
recommendation system. But then when we
stumbled on on voice we knew that a this
is a good timing where the technology is
going for the shift. We can be part of
that shift of that technology and then
two this is a huge problem that uh that
the problem that the users the world
have and we can solve it. If I started
something on 21 22, I just don't think
we would work on the same idea and
probably uh wouldn't understand the pain
the same way we do now that that we
approached voice.
>> Got it. Anton lovable also on fire. If
you were started this company right out
of school, what would it be like?
[snorts]
>> Um I I also think it might have not been
as ambitious because I mean I had never
done something entrepreneurial. Um, and
the biggest disadvantage being that
young would have been that I wouldn't
know like why to hire very senior
engineers and what may like what type of
great senior engineers are out there.
>> Um, because like they don't want they
will be very scared of working for me.
Um, but I think I would have a lot of
other advantages maybe even being more
naive. Um, and
already then I think I surrounded myself
by super super smart people. So I I
could have I think I could have built
something uh very different with fast
iteration place could have been
successful.
>> And I got a little bit of what you took
from Palunteer. Um you had some very
interesting experiences before lovable.
Can you talk a little bit about them and
what kind of you took from those that
you're le leveraging at lovable?
>> Yeah sure. So if you go way way back, we
I also studied like sciences and physics
specifically and when I was uh I did
this long internship at CERN where uh I
understood a certain particle physics
and where they discovered a lot of the
recent physics but but there's a lot of
smart people there and I was like wait
they're all working on these impossible
problems without any elasticity. So, uh
I'm not going to be here. I'm going to
go u applying great innovation to the
real world. Um and then um I was kind of
inspired to start a company when I was
um in university which I'm very happy
about but I uh ended up um doing doing
some finance actually unfortunately
unfortunately [laughter]
>> which was a bit too boring for me. Okay.
Um but fortunately I started this um
community Stockholm AI and this was
around when deep learning was like
taking off in 2015 16 and I I I did the
foundation models of training current
new like large small language models
before it was cool and met great people
there and one was the founder at SA to
Joel who recently sold Sonnet for to
workday for a billion dollars.
>> Yes, congratulations.
>> Yes, great job by the team there. I mean
my contribution was bring in some of
those smart people that went on to to
grow it to what what it became. Um and I
was there for three years and it was
like oh AI like let's build we were you
all was super young uh but uh we we
learned super fast and it it became
successful. Then I joined uh as a
co-founder at a company that just got
into YC um and that was in
recommendation systems specifically for
e-commerce. uh that could have been
absolutely wildly successful the company
it had a lot of things going for it but
um after a bit of momentum loss and my
co-f founder and I like uh and me being
I I wanted to pivot to something more
successful that that I can say than
e-commerce um but I decided to do some
do do the most possible ambitious thing
and all my life I've been uh
like approached by people who wanted to
find a great engineer to help them
realize their dreams or the ideas. uh
the world is full of them like 0.5% of
the world can even code and much fewer
can build a great product like Mati and
his co-founder right so um I decided
let's build something for the 99% and
not this productivity boost for
developers and that's going to be a
completely new type of interface
>> where you um rim your idea of some
technical AI product into existence and
that's what we set out to build
>> okay So um your first company you were
the founding engineer.
>> Yeah.
>> Your next company depict you were
co-founder CTO. Now you're CEO. Is it
everything you ever hoped?
>> Uh it's a good question. I I think it's
quite uh different. And what I love
about it is that I get to know myself um
and like how to surround myself with the
right like complimentary skill sets um
and challen be challenged in all the
possible ways much more than being a
co-founder and CTO
>> and um like I run the company on founder
mode I would mostly empathize with uh
but at this stage um I mean there's a a
big shift in be in focusing on
empowering unblocking the leaders in the
company.
>> Um, and I mean I I like that and it's
more analytical
>> is being a CEO what you thought like
what surprised you about it?
>> Um, you have to do so many things or I
mean unless you're very uh disciplined
about what what you delegate and how you
delegate it. It's like there's all so
many many different things thrown at you
especially as you start hyperscaling.
>> Yes. Um, how about for you? You're CEO,
your first time CEO. What's harder than
you thought? What's easier than the
thought? What's different than you
thought?
>> Yeah, I think the the first one is
definitely you want to hire people
better than yourself in all those areas
that that you know for the first time.
In our case, things like legal or
finance or um building the gotom market
motion in sales, like all of these
things which I've seen kind of results
of that work but never have actually
done the work. Yeah.
>> So it was a very quick learning of like
how do you do that so you actually
understand it and you need to understand
at least a little bit to then be able
and assess the person that you want to
bring in. So that was kind of the the
two things that that uh they now
repetitively try to do when we have a
new area. I'm trying to first put myself
in those shoes, understand the basics
and then hire persons I know that they
are doing that work. And the delegation
too was uh was something that I I think
I hold on for for too long like like to
to do myself rather than than delegate.
And then actually how to delegate was an
interesting piece in itself where um I
think you you do want to give a lot of a
lot of the the the work to other leaders
that you hire the other people that you
grow um but you still want to understand
the detail that's happening and then
like how do you let them own it be the
leaders they want to be but still remain
in the details in the funer mode to to
be able to jump in when needed. uh that
balance of like how do you interact
through that is is is is a tricky thing
that uh that is still I think a
continuous learning for me
>> and like I found that there's kind of
three types of CEOs is people who are
really in all the details in in
everyone's shorts all the time there are
CEOs that are pretty high level and like
I have an expression keep your feet in
the ground your head in the head in the
clouds or you're in the details and
you're up high some people who stay very
high and then there's what I call
spelunkers people kind of go down deep
in one thing for a while, then come back
out and go down into another thing. Have
you got one of those models? Is that is
that like what are you? It sounds like
you're the first.
>> I do like the details. I think similar
like the the uh I think to to to how
Anon um mentioned that that you operate
is like you do want the the fun. You
want to understand the product. You want
to actually work with the product all
the time. So you know how to actually um
uh use the product better than than than
most. So I'm trying to trying to stay
extremely detailed and like what it is
that we are shipping, how we're shipping
it, how it works behind the scenes. So
that's probably the the key thing. Um I
like your analogy of of uh um head in
the clouds, the
the feet on the ground. I think the the
the thing that I'm trying and I and I
think uh where where the the magic
happens if you do it well is being able
to zoom out and zoom zoom in extremely
quickly before those context. So you're
able to understand the problem, zoom
into the detail, you understand the
detail and then the next second you need
to go to another problem which requires
the same activity.
>> There's a lot of context switching being
a CEO.
>> Exactly. And that's uh and you kind of
need to be immediate in that. um um my
co-founder who who is the smartest
person I know and is kind of leading the
research uh work in his case he needs to
go extremely deep for very long time so
we like have very we frequently speak
about this very different way of
approaching the the work where one is
like all about context switching the
other one is all about going as deep as
possible
>> and how about what are you thinking on
how are you feeling about delegation is
it natural just delegate all this stuff
or is it like ah I want to be in the
details I had a hard I had a very hard
time delegating
Um I think it's often the ah when I'm
I'm very impatient generally and
>> um like [laughter] there is some
friction when I when there's many things
that are feel very urgent and I know
know one thing but maybe not all the
other ones.
>> Are you driving people crazy?
>> Um no mostly no. Mostly they like me.
They they feel where I'm coming from and
I usually this this is coming from a
good place. Um
>> okay let's talk about team. You just
hired a friend of mine to run sales.
>> Yeah.
>> Um you're building out your team. How
are you thinking about building out your
team, your senior team in particular?
And then are you looking
>> are you looking for people with high
slope or high experience?
>> Oh, that's a good question. I I think
like at this stage um there's some
there's many things we just like need to
be done uh very predictably and um like
because of like all the opportunities
that are out there and hiring people who
have done it before and are maybe
wouldn't be as effective early stage
because they're like set in their ways
that that is very effective. It's very
effective.
>> Oh, wait. So you you lean towards
experience not necessarily
>> for the things that have to get done we
know like what those things are it is
effective to like what
>> uh so for sales um everything that come
goes under sales a lot of fun sub
functions of marketing that has like all
of this you're
>> looking for experience there
>> I'm looking for experience and then so
uh at least to run them and then um one
if you have capacity to also hire people
people with high slopes and who are like
generalists and you also find a good way
to be able to move them around in the
company. Um, that's something that has
worked really well for us.
>> Um, I I can cannot predict how it's
going to work when there's more
structure in the company, but I'm
committed to finding a good experiment.
>> Any of these highs slope generalists who
you're moving around on your senior
team, direct reports, senior team
>> senior team or
>> any of are any of your direct reports
any of these
>> you know high slope people moving
around? um not on my like actual
leadership team, but many of the ones I
work with dayto-day who like feel like
they're reporting directly to me on many
things are more of the highest.
>> Yeah.
>> How about you on the team? You're
building you're got a little you've got
a few hundred employees. You're less
than 100.
>> Um
>> what are you thinking about the senior
team? What are you looking for? Have you
had any misfires?
>> In our case, so we have we have we have
over 300 people, but uh inside of the
company, it's effectively a lot of small
teams has 30 teams of five to 10 people.
And it usually is a combination of um
depending on the space either few with
with with with the experience with the
past um work in that space and then
usually infused with some of the high
slope and we we like that because a you
get the generalists that can adopt a lot
of the new tooling and kind of do new
work. Um and second we try to bring a
lot the engineers across in some of
those teams. So even in a traditional
growth team, we have growth engineers
and the ops team will have operations
engineering to help automate a lot of
the process. Um sometimes use lovable in
the in the process to to help to help
with that work and um and and that has
that has helped tremendously to kind of
get the experience the domain expertise
while while creating the new the new
process across the leadership. So then
all those team roll up to each effective
lead. So we have a go to market leads.
Um then the engineering leads.
>> How many direct reports do you have?
>> I have 15 direct reports.
>> That's a lot. Okay. And that crew of 15
are they kind of young hungry grow up at
the company high slope or are they kind
of been there done that?
>> Almost exactly half half. So half half
have done that before. Usually are
growing with the role. Of course we are
growing extremely quickly. So we grew
from from we started 2022 from zero to
now over 200 million in revenue. So that
growth has been quick for for everybody.
So everybody's learning at at the same
time. But half of them have seen that
before and the other half are
>> the uh 50/50. Like at HubSpot we were
kind of the same. I was I'd look around
the table about half grew up with the
company very high slope and half had a
lot of experience. That felt right to
me. Does that feel right to you? It
does. It's so it's it's in in a many
ways the people that are there have
grown with the company incredibly. Uh
Victoria who leads our ops team has
never done anything like this before,
right?
>> And uh also from palunteer background so
also physics background so trying to
like create the process as as we go
across and has grown incredibly with the
company and then others um kind of are
still super important for the company
but will stay in more of the product
teams or on the IC roles in other parts.
How about you on the on the you know
what's your mix of kind of homegrown and
been there done that you're probably
just starting to hire execs I guess from
the outside.
>> Yeah. So I built out this this
leadership team which is like seven
people with my co.
>> So you have seven direct reports.
>> Yeah. So with without me and my coffer
it's five direct reports. Yeah.
>> And officially everyone else like
reports into them.
>> Yeah. And
>> do you feel like you got that right or
over time it's going to get much bigger
or where you at? Like I think of Jensen
Huang has 45 direct reports and
>> you have a lot too now.
>> No, I didn't. I had like 10. No. Uh
yeah. And it's amazing to me that they
got people with 45 or 50 and people with
three. Um there's such a range. Anyway,
it it was the five intentional or it
just kind of happened.
>> Uh it was intentional. Very intentional.
Yeah. Uh to like add a lot more add a
lot more structure. And then if you I
think generally like if you say okay
let's try to have a lot of structure and
then it's easier to add more like
chaotic things on top of that.
>> Yeah.
>> And see how that works.
>> Okay.
>> So you're hiring we we kind of work
together on that head of sales search.
>> How are you thinking about these senior
searches? How are you deciding? You know
you never run a sales or it's a it's a
hard thing like
>> lots of people are in your shoes like
how are you making those calls?
>> Yes. O with the head of sales I worked I
worked closely with Jany at Excel who
had done this before many times.
>> Okay. Danny Hersburg from
Andy. Exactly. So and um
>> they coached you. they got they got gave
me a lot of impact input on it and um I
mean in the end it was me spending a lot
of time with this candidates and them
spending time with the team um and
presenting how they would do things and
that that felt like that gave a lot of
instilled a lot of confidence
>> okay for me
>> so you had a bunch of help
>> yeah spoke to many people
>> and how on your side same thing you
hadn't run a sale you haven't none of us
have done what we did but you hadn't run
a sales or you had to make a decision on
a sales leader. You had a lot of
qualified candidates. How did you go
about it?
>> Yeah, you it's a tricky one and
especially I think for sales the sales
people know how to sell themselves. They
need to be able so they are so you kind
of need to filter through like do they
actually uh know how to sell but they
are all like good at it. So uh we we are
in a good setup where one of the sales
people was our investor. So we've seen
him actually help um us advise before he
became a salesperson. So when when we
started the company we started getting
enterprise inbound um we realized okay
we can start something very quickly and
he already has spent so much time with
us then it became natural okay we want
to bring that person in um and then as
we've hired other roles we have of
course amazing investors uh across like
SEOA who are on recent team who are
helping us uh on that hunt so we would
partner very closely with the domain
experts to to to to help us through the
network through the back references to
make sure that they are right ones. I
think the back references really helps
across that beyond the spending time
with the with the team which which I
think is crucial. Um and then the other
part which which I haven't realized
until later is the for sales
specifically is that you are hiring of
course a great individual for creating
the sales uh playbook helping you sell
into the enterprises but then ultimately
the person you hire they will set the
culture for the sales team too like a
lot of the people they will hire will be
so similar in the approach to that work
um which uh which I didn't appreciate
until the after the fact I was happy
that the culture was very aligned but uh
but then you can See they are very much
similar and we have Europe and US sales
team they're slightly different okay the
Europe is a lot more confident like the
a little bit like a lot the the European
uh versus US upbringing so a lot more
confident than our Europe European
counterparts that take more of like
partner sales approach
>> u but they have core similar values
which which helps
>> okay one of the things that confuses me
about life today as a CEO is like from
HubSpot from let's call it we went
public in 2012 until I sat down 2000
2020. We had an annual planning cycle
and the world just didn't change a whole
lot every year. How the hell do you guys
plan with the changes going on
underneath? Like what's your cycle? How
do you do it?
>> So, we've done very little planning.
>> Okay. Um and I think that's pretty smart
because uh you can like everything is
changing very rapidly on as at least for
our I mean our B2B offering is like
enterprises are uh huge ones are using
our product to a huge extent. Um we are
just like giving trying to give them uh
the time they can get like as as much
time as you can get um and not being
like okay this is our ICP this is
exactly the sales process at least. so
far. Um, but there there's like tens of
thousand people in a hackathon. Some
many of the world's like largest
healthcare companies using us and we um
we will I think start taking a step back
uh and being okay where are we seeing u
like from much better data and analytics
as well. How where are we going to
focus?
>> Okay, let me push back a little bit. You
just had a big release that looks
amazing.
>> You must have planned for that. You just
didn't pull that out of a hackathon last
week.
>> Yeah. So, on [laughter] the first side,
I mean, we we we do have a launch road
map and like it goes out six No, it goes
out like six months and it's just that I
I'm sure it's
>> uh going to change.
>> Okay. So, there's a there's a
lightweight six-month product roadmap.
Yeah.
>> Okay. Got it. And it's pretty flexible
like within that six months deep pivot.
>> Yeah. I do now at this uh size of the
company. Um we are of course going into
longer time horizons sometime.
>> Yeah, I think it's just hard to plan
more than six months right now with all
the underlying platform changes. Um I
can't Yeah, it's an interesting time to
be a CEO. How about over at 11 Labs like
what's the cycle?
>> The cycle so we do um so the teams have
a pretty high flexibility in how they
operate week to week. So they can kind
of take different directions but on a
quarterly basis we'll we'll get the
teams together. They'll spend up to a
day effectively outlining what are the
initiatives they want to run for the
next quarter and then it's even less for
the team itself. Sometimes it helps
formalize a lot of the ideas but it's
more valuable for the teams around so
they know what to expect so they can
learn from that that process. and we
just came back from from an offsite with
the entire team uh where we where we are
looking like what where we would like to
be as a company in 2026 and in the next
three years. Uh the thing that's
probably the hardest is research. So we
do also the foundational part for for
voice. Yeah. Um have a lot of research
teams that that that uh that crank up
some of the best models out there and
that's of course so hard to predict. So
here we don't give any timelines. We do
research initiatives we want to plan. So
that's the one that goes out of the
cycle. These are like
>> you don't know what's going to come out.
It's very different than
>> you don't know. You need to stay nimble
that like the moment it comes out.
That's why the small teams have been
helped so much as well because the
moment something comes out either
internally from our research team or
from other teams, you know that this is
like you have 24 hours to start
integrating that into your product.
That's like the most important time to
really to really be ahead.
>> Okay. Speaking of planning, I remember
in the early days of HubSpot before we
were CRM, we were a marketing app.
[snorts] And every year I would go to
the Salesforce.com conference called
Dreamforce and I sit in the audience and
our pitch by the way at that time was
Salesforce.com is to sales as HubSpot is
to marketing. And we would always think
in the back of our head until
Salesforce.com wants to become the
Salesforce.com marketing. And so we'd
sit in the audience every year hoping
[snorts]
they didn't announce a marketing
product. And sure enough, 2012 was their
that was the marketing year. They bought
four marketing companies and they really
went for it. We ended up pivoting and
going to CRM. I would imagine you have a
similar feeling when Anthropics doing a
big announcement or OpenAI's having a
big announcement. Even HubSpot is like
we don't know is OpenAI going to be a
platform company like Google was or are
they going to go build vertical apps?
Are you as paranoid as I was or are you
not that worried? Yeah, I mean they do
have a lot of distribution out of the
box. Uh so that's it would hurt if
>> are you or do you sit there like worried
when [snorts] they're doing their
announcements? Are they going to
>> not really know like I have so many
things to think about. Um I catch up on
like on the recent announcement and I'm
I'm sure they will announce something.
>> I would imagine they
will be inferior. a
>> you've got a head start and
>> but you kind of like I kind of think it
would be an obvious thing for them to
build.
>> Yeah.
>> You know something yet like there what
we're building is this full platform
where you serving like most of the
product needs for product anti-product
engineering organization and that uh
takes a lot of iteration steps to get to
the to the full thing and uh
>> unless they're like building that out
completely in the dark and then
launching it I don't think there it's
going to be a threat from the first
launch. Okay. I'm very impressed with
your lack of paranoia. Are you paran I
would are anyway are you like I was
paranoid nervous about what's going to
happen.
>> Definitely a little always nervous and
watching closely I mean they have great
great research teams. So so they they
they we know that they will be pushing
into the voice space. Yes. Um at the at
the same time given like the spread of
work that you just mentioned the corlary
is they lack focus and we are fully
focused on voice whether that's creating
the research or products for creating
voice agent or creating creative
workflows which does take a lot of
iterations to actually bring that to the
user to make it the best experience that
they require to solve their problems
solve their integrations so I do think
it's uh you know it's it's it's going to
become increasingly competitive
especially on the research But that's
where the product platform brand the
design the taste will matter a lot more.
Something we speak a little bit with
Anton every so often and that will be
the big piece where companies going deep
into that space will will win.
>> Okay. Speaking of taste, one thing I
really like about both of you is I think
you have taste particularly in your
marketing. Like you guys do some
interesting stuff. You are fantastic on
Twitter. [laughter] Fantastic on
Twitter. You're one of my favorite
follows.
How much time are you spending doing it?
Do you do it all yourself? Uh
you're you're you're out there on stuff.
Like just talk about your Twitter
strategy.
>> Yeah, sure.
>> Um
>> did you like did you tweet just before
we got in here? Like what's the deal?
>> No, but um I I do spend quite some time
on it and it feels like oh my god, I'm
doing so many there. I'm a CEO. I'm
doing so many things and then I have to
sit down every week and and get some of
this some of the post right. Um, but I
do have a team that comes to me with
ideas and like every Monday we go
through it's it's 15 minutes in the
calendar. Okay. Usually takes more time.
>> They bring you here's a tweet that would
be good.
>> No, they bring me ideas like okay should
we do something on this and I I like
drop a lot of um ideas as well in the
Slack channel and uh um but this is not
their full-time job either. So it's it's
a bit it's it's like it's not a proper
function in the company.
>> It's very very effective in my opinion.
like your brand is very strong. It
>> is it working really well? Are you
actually pressing the button when the
tweak goes out or is somebody doing it
for you?
>> It's usually me. I I So there there's an
actually a very good company called the
typefully that you can draft them in and
then you can like collaborate on them.
Okay.
>> Uh and I I usually the one who schedule
them in that. Okay.
>> So I do the final process.
>> I would keep going and get even whackier
if I were you. [laughter]
>> Thank you.
>> I think you're killing it.
>> You guys um are busy. I remember when I
was your size
um I get I got asked to do so much [__]
Speak at my conference. Can you
interview my daughter? Can you talk to
this venture capitalist, this candidate?
It's just an endless like
of [snorts] asks and it's chaotic and
the firm is asking you to do all that
kind of stuff. How do you guys manage
just like kind of tactically manage the
chaos, manage your schedule, get [__]
done in the in the hurricane of of
requests, inputs, chaos? Any tricks?
>> A few few tricks. Few tricks for sure.
The the I think the we we run a lot of
the company on Slack. So the Slack is
one part and of course the email is
especially the external piece for email.
Uh now it's a combination of two. uh my
my brilliant assistant Hana is helping
and the script is helping to autocl
classify a lot of emails to effectively
P 0 P1 P2 P 0 is
>> somebody else is reading your emails and
P 0
>> someone else is reading and now we have
a script as well to autocl classify them
>> okay
>> and uh and then P 0 is
>> that is interesting
>> it's super helpful
>> okay
>> same day reply on the P 0 P1 can wait
through the week P2 not important I can
I can I I can take out and then I have
like unblock piece
>> so somebody's reading your emails tells
us like hey you need to respond to this
is P 0
>> labels so every email gets a label and
then
>> by a homo sapien
>> by a homo sapiens and a script so now
it's a combination of both so script
does the first pass and then the homo
sapiens does the second second pass
>> fascinating
>> hana who is like great at it too okay
>> and um and then you know exactly okay
this is I need to reply this day this is
an important customer partner
>> how does she know what's important like
I send you an email she must be like
that's It's so important. You got to
respond. [laughter]
How does she know what's important?
>> Well, the the the first thing is
sometimes there's of course new where
you don't, but usually she knows me
inside out. And the second thing is for
a lot of the people, a lot of the
clients, you Brian, you will be in my
contact list, you will have a P 0
inbound. So the first moment you hit me
with the email, it will autocl classify
that as a P 0. Um, so I know that it's
at the top and uh and that I should
reply on the on the same day.
>> Okay. Um, so that has worked
tremendously across across email. I get
I think I'm I'm very good on like
getting up um the Slack must be a
firestorm.
>> Slack is a firestorm. Slack is a
firestorm. Um, so it's usually a
combination. If I think it's taking more
than five minutes, then I will remind
myself later. So I'm big on the remind
function.
>> And then if it's less than five minutes,
I usually try to to reply straight away.
>> Yeah. Kind of inbox zero on your Slack.
>> Inbox zero on the Slack.
>> Okay. What about your calendar?
>> Calendar is uh at least week in advance
clean in terms of like what I want to do
and then if there's like an urgent thing
that comes up then it things get
reshuffled.
>> Yeah.
>> Um and then as I think the biggest piece
that I've done over the last six months
and you mentioned the conferences, the
events is planning at least a quarter
ahead which uh which continents I will
be in and I'm trying to never be
switching the continent in a in the same
month. So like I with 10 a month I'm
trying to stay in one place.
>> Oh, so you go to the US for a month.
>> I usually try to be in the US for close
to a month.
>> I see.
>> And that helps a lot with getting on the
ground working with the team but also
working with the customers. I think it's
going to decrease to two weeks now given
how how distributed we are. But uh but
before that I used to go for like few
days sometimes to us and that has that
has been not not ideal. Yeah. Before
>> Okay. Your calendar must be nuts. Um,
what does it look like and where do you
build in time to like actually think?
>> It's a good question. Um,
I kind of I think I think best by
talking with together with someone else.
>> Okay.
>> Um, so it it naturally like happens. I
see
>> maybe late in the office or something
with grabbing oneonone time.
>> Um, yeah. I I think I'm like I'm still
in this like firestorm and I I'm going
set on innovating on what works best.
Like there's a certain type of
creativity that you also only get like
when you're bored or like you get some
downtime and uh I don't I think there's
some way to program myself with the like
this environment to get more of that.
>> I did a Wednesday every Wednesday I work
from home
>> and no meeting it was no meeting
Wednesday. That helped. I'm also a
little introverted so I needed a little
time to re charge. Are you guys
introverted or extroverted?
>> Are you introverted?
>> Um I say that but people around me are
like no no you're fake introverts.
>> Yeah. [laughter]
>> Yeah.
>> But I I mean if I if I'm alone a full
day I'm like oh god people human coming.
>> I'm not like that. I'm like oh I need
another alone day. Um okay interesting.
>> The no meetings day helps. We I I also
have no meetings day. it usually gets
meetings, but they are meetings I
actually want to do rather than like are
um like kind of proactive for the future
rather than like in the moment in this
given week. So,
>> one of the things that really helped me
was like once a month I made a to-do
list of like here's the eight things I
want to get done and I would publish
that on our we had a wiki at the time
and so everyone in the company to see
what I was working on and I would look
at it every couple days and be like does
my calendar match my to-do list because
all the Slacks and emails are everybody
else's priorities imposed on you and by
putting it on there it sort of allowed
me to say no. Um, it's just so much
stuff and it was hard to say no. And so
it gave me license to say, you know,
it's not on my to-do list. I'm not going
to do it. And then I got a hat with a
big no on it, a no hat, and I walk
around the office uh and people call me
Dr. No. Because I just wanted to keep it
focused on a couple things that I was
trying to get done and the company was
trying to get done and I would lose
focus and then it' be a firestorm and
then back. So I didn't nail it, but that
was a small hack that helped a little.
Okay, you two um are
do an amazing job building amazing
companies in Europe. My two favorite
entrepreneurs. Um
what's it like building an amazing AI
company in Europe? Um
and what are the pluses and minuses of
building in Europe?
>> I I think um the network around you is
not as mature compared to especially
Silicon Valley.
>> Yeah. And that makes it more difficult
with the distribution. Um I mean in like
sophisticated investors
are like just one coffee away can be
valuable. Uh and then once you're
staffing especially on like not the high
slope generalists are distributed across
the world, right? But as you're stuffing
with people who have done it and seen it
before, um it's trickier to find it in
Europe, I would say. But
>> I heard you refer to building in Europe
as hard mode.
>> I mean that those parts are hard mode.
But at the same time, I I think
>> uh I don't know, maybe we would have
been more successful building from from
the valley or something. I could have
see that. But I think it has been very
helpful for us to be like the go-to
number one talent destination in
Stockholm.
>> Uh and that's the reason I decided no,
we're going to stay here. We're going to
stay here and bet on on the that there's
much more available talent that doesn't
jump around and like they aren't
entitled and spoiled and they they're
cheaper. They're they're yearning for um
like a possibility to literally change
the world.
>> Yeah. And um there's not many companies
that have done it from Europe. There has
not not been a trillion dollar company
from Europe. And uh being at 11 Labs or
building at lovable is one of those
opport very very rare opportunities
here.
>> I agree with that. I'm going to ask you
this. You've got employees in the US and
Europe.
Any difference?
>> Definitely differences. And similar I I
I will quickly add that I think the
talent in Europe can be incredible.
Okay.
>> You just need to you need to find you
need to find that talent.
>> Um
>> and we're you're building in London
mostly or all over?
>> Uh all over, but London and Poland are
our biggest hubs. And
>> Poland must be terrific.
>> Poland is is incredible. Like some of
the best central Eastern Europe like
some of
>> everybody must want to work for you in
Poland. It's like it's like Anton Stock.
>> We are we are heavily building the brand
across across Eastern Europe and and we
we think those engineers are just so
incredible. They are yearning for
something. I think they're yearning for
a company that actually wants to build
something generational, something big.
And there's just so few of those
opportunities. At the same time, the
companies of Silicon Valley frequently
don't give that opportunity. So it's
like perfect
>> to build new stuff. They give like
>> exactly
>> it stuff.
>> Uh and on so I think one of the
differences which is on a lot of
Europeans especially Eastern Europe is
are very straightforward, straight to
the point, very direct sometimes
>> uh sometimes too direct which we
actually really enjoy as a company. it
helped to share a lot of ideas,
criticism, feedback in a in a much
better way. Um, on the other hand, what
I think US is going for them is that
confidence of like things are going to
be amazing, are great, are very
ambitious across the entirety of of of
the people. And that's something that uh
that we are continuously trying to
instill in some of the people across
across Europe.
>> Okay. too. Um, and maybe the other thing
that helps across Europe is that if
you're building in Europe, um, you of
course need to build for for the global
market. You cannot build just for
European market.
>> But then when you do that, then you the
time zone is actually perfect for
catering to US to to to
South America to Europe and to Asia as
well, which helped in our case as well.
>> And the difference between American
employees and European
>> it would be that I think the the main
one is also beyond being direct and
confident. I think the um
entrepreneurship kind of aspiration is
very different in US. Everybody knows
value of equity. Everybody is treating
that as part of like a good career. In
Europe, you kind of need to convince the
employees. Sometimes you need to
convince the families that this is the
right thing.
>> Uh in Poland, we need to uh frequently
explain that equity is worth something.
Almost force the employees to take the
equity, which which is always an
interesting surprise of like how does it
work? Um but now we've went through this
cycle a few times. Um and the equity is
worth something with the tender offers.
So people started educating other people
that this is actually the right choice
uh which we hope will like in places
like Poland and wider Europe will become
more more normalized and and then
something that people will will want to
do across entrepreneurship.
>> When I was in my late 20s I spent in
early 30s seven years in Asia and I
worked for this company PTC a very good
company in the US.
And I had to convince Japanese people
and Chinese people and Korean people
that this thing called equity is going
to be worth a lot. And man, it was a dog
fight convincing them like what this is
you're just trying to pay me less money.
Um I remember those days. Um and people
made a lot of money on that stock.
Okay. On this topic like 996 are you
guys in office 996 hardcore? Like one
interesting thing like my generation of
CEOs, we kind of followed it. Steve Jobs
was sort of on our Mount Rushmore and
the current generation's it feels like
it's a lot more Elon and and companies
are working much more like Elon's
companies. Who's your Mount Rushmore?
Are you 996 like Elon Plus? Like where
where are you guys at?
>> Steve Jobs is great. Yeah.
>> Yeah. I think it's a good one.
[laughter] I mean, what I like about him
is he really understands that like a
team working better and better and
better over time and like really
obsessing and caring about what you're
doing is what
>> Who are you talking about?
>> Steve Jobs. Yes.
>> But who who if I'm Steve Jobs, who are
you Elon? Who's your
>> um I mean my style can be a bit Elon
like this has to get done now. Like what
what does it take to do this faster?
What
>> is it Daniel?
>> No, I don't know him that well
unfortunately how he operated. But uh uh
so based on reading about Elon um I have
a bit of that but I think you lose a lot
of the like the autonomy and teams
feeling ownership of doing doing it too
much the Elon way. So uh I I might get
back to you on with a with a more care.
>> Are you 996 plus?
>> Um me many people are in the company are
996 plus many people in the company but
um people have family as families as
well. So it's just we have very very
very high expectations of everyone to
have to drive impact.
>> Um and then if you're not working many
hours you need to have clearly
[laughter] clearly have impact in other
ways. You think that scales like one of
the problems with scale is that drive
sort of waines and that you know do you
think that fades and is there ideas in
your head how you keep that that
motivation going?
>> Um
I I think it's about setting very very
ambitious goals every week and um
>> that's one of your things every week you
put out goals.
>> Yeah. And then it's it's very being very
clear before someone joins on what the
expectations are
>> and um it's about
evaluating impact
>> and have you lost candidates like VP
candidates because like you know what
yeah I love the mission I love you but I
can only do 50 hours a week and I got a
I've got a I've got a life I've got four
kids. I I lost I think we lost some kind
of like that but that's maybe good.
>> Life in the big city. Okay. How how
who's your Mount Rushmore?
>> It's definitely closer to Steve Jobs
between those two. Um uh but it's it's
his he was always like so caring about
the design about making it kind of
hiding complexity from the user making
it easy to use. Um, uh, he does he does
have this obsessive piece which is maybe
a slightly different to how I would try
to to run it or or or work in a company.
Uh, but I love what he created as as as
his legacy. But there are amazing other
CEOs there. You know, there's like more
more pockets from different people that
that that are incredible. I like Jamie
Diamond and how his clarity and and his
like across so many things that he runs
and he I think he has like half a
million people under him. He feels very
calm and under control. I think this is
admirable. Um, Satya, I think the way he
kind of turned it around and he is like
a very caring person around around uh
how he runs the company. I think this
this is this is another great great
leader. Um,
but from the 996 I think in our case,
>> are you guys 996?
>> Not in the office. I think everybody is
online chronically and all the time. We
definitely make it very explicit before
you you join. It's we find it's like
once in a in a lifetime change with AI
across the world we can be the voice of
the change the voice of the technology
and everybody understands the
opportunity ahead is is rare um
>> and we do lose candidates across but
then you filter we do frequently I mean
they frequently won't I think even apply
we are like very vocal in the process
that that that it's it's it's a it's a
lot of time commitment we never impose
it or ask anyone for doing that but they
do Um it's it's usually seven days a
week but you are not maybe working all
the seven days a week but you are online
and ready to jump in especially on the
weekends on any on any questions and um
and I think people people enjoy working
next to passionate people so you kind of
like get that bar higher you run
together and then when you see results
it's it's also motivating
>> in like the last 50 employees like your
from employee 250 to 500 versus 50 to
100 is Is there a difference in your
mind in commitment and zeal and
whatever?
>> You know it's definitely some but but
the current employees are also okay on
it like and I think the small teams
helped where you you have like you know
you effectively join that
>> unit of 10 people or less.
>> So you are seeing that everybody's
running in that unit and everybody else
is running too. So you you are going
after after that too. Um, of course we
also have people with families, people
that will have other other things and
and that can work and uh and and and it
does, but usually those people are are
thinking about work and how to improve
um at all times.
>> What do you guys think European like
what needs to happen in Europe to
[applause] to have like a lot more of
you guys?
>> I think they're coming. Yeah, it truly
is 100%. Okay. There there is like
engineering schools now you ask them
would you consider starting a startup or
being in part of the funding team 80%
yes
>> okay
>> it went up to 10x
okay interesting
>> and that first generation will help I
think like few of the companies if we if
we do do a good job get get some people
to to start another set of companies I
think the second thing of what's I think
missing in the European ecosystem is
people that have done it before have
seen that scale um that and then of is
have got a good outcome to then make
make clear of like this is actually a
really cool thing to do. Uh hopefully
those people can infuse additional set
of startups across across Europe.
>> We started um HubSpot in Boston and it's
got a lot of the same benefits Europe
like so much talent MIT's there just we
were a magnet for it. the the area it
fell down is as we scaled and we need to
hire you know a head of marketing who
had seen the movie before someone who
had really operated at scale so we
started hiring more people in the valley
um that started happen around a thousand
employees um
>> but it feels similar Boston feels
similar to Europe in that way Boston's
conservative it's kind of similar um any
advice for all there's lots of young
smart entrepreneurs listen to this pod
uh that want to build the next levelable
the next 11 labs. Any any any advice?
>> First of all, I think go for it. It's
it's amazing to to to build a company
and you know, of course, um maybe I was
in a in a lucky position where where I
had savings and I could I didn't have
like the the dependencies, but if you
are in that similar situation, uh I
think it's it's go for it. the learning
experience you get uh across building a
company even if it doesn't go the way
what you expect I think is so much more
valuable than uh than frequently joining
joining other companies and being a
smaller cogle in a big machine um and
then I think obsess about the problem
try to deeply understand what you are
actually solving for talk with customers
and the the simplest advice I think is
the most valuable here which is actually
working with the user and iterating very
very deeply um and then I think it's all
about the team and hiring so the people
you bring across
and who you build with will be will be
defining for the company. So pick your
co-founders carefully and well and know
them ideally for a longer time before
you decide to start something. And as
you assemble the team, you really want
the trusted individuals that
>> uh that you want to go for the for the
next decades together.
>> Yeah.
>> I think you want to learn things very
very fast if you're getting started and
um you want to learn a lot of things.
You want to learn how to hire. Um I mean
you don't have to be so good at managing
but having high expectations of people
and giving them clear feedback
[clears throat]
>> and you want to know learn how to sell.
you want to sell to your customers or
sell them or and market um to your the
people you want to hire and if you want
investors you're always selling and so
you should do that all the time and fail
and uh ask someone who you respect to
>> give it to you hard on like how bad you
are because if you're just getting
started
>> first
>> yeah of course [laughter]
>> okay
>> next person and just go out there and
like try to find joy probably by having
a co-founder as you're talking about in
the in the failings and the learnings.
>> Yes.
>> Yeah. That's the other thing which uh I
was thinking about your earlier question
what you don't expect as a CEO as well.
Um you don't expect that uh that you
don't have anyone to complain to
effectively,
>> right? [laughter]
>> So so your co-founder is your like
soulmate that you can speak through and
then there are some sometimes amazing
people in the team you can iterate
through but not to the same not to the
same.
>> Yes, I totally totally agree with that.
Um I want to congratulate you guys on
all your success. I admire what you guys
are doing. I sure hope you guys build
trillion dollar companies in Europe.
That'd be amazing. Good luck to you.
Thanks for doing the pod.
>> Thank you so much.
>> Thank you.
>> Appreciate you.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. Those two are terrific and it's
nice to see them kind of blossoming
before our eyes. What they have in
common is they both had like seven or
eight years of experience with like one
good company in there. And I know it's
fashionable to drop out of Harvard and
start a company like Zuck did, but at
least for me,
I did two startups before HubSpot. One
was very successful, went public, and
got very large. Man, did I learn a lot
from that. And man, are there a lot of
lessons inside of HubSpot about scaling,
but you do you. But I don't think it
hurts a founder to be in a really good
startup to learn before they start a
company. They talked a lot about their
co-founders
and one of the things about being a CEO
is you're just you're you're a [__]
umbrella. Like all the [__] rains on you
and you get an umbrella for your whole
organization. It's hard. The other thing
about being a CEO is like no one is
coming to save you. In my startups, my
boss would come and save me. Another
team would come and save me. There was a
lot of resources around. You're pretty
alone and it's on you as a founder. The
one person you can complain to is your
co-founder. And so my advice to to you
would be to really get to know your
co-founder because it's an incredibly
important relationship for you going
forward. We got into mechanics of of the
job and we talked about delegation and
they're kind of starting to it's
interesting. They're starting to
delegate. They're like, "Oh, we're kind
of founder mode. We're not sure how to
do this." But they're starting to do it.
It's impressive to see what they're
doing. my experience the way that worked
as HubSpot scaled. I was very founder
mode in sales and in product and man the
rest of the organization I was very
manager mode and I drove both
constituencies crazy. The the sales and
product folks I was in their shorts and
they always complained I was too much in
the details. All the rest of them
complained that they didn't respond to
their emails. So that was sort of the
blend for me. I wasn't all manager mode.
It wasn't all founder mode and that kind
of worked for me and m maybe that would
work for you running your company. I
like the way they were thinking about
their teams. I asked all the CEOs on
these uh episodes know what's their span
of control and it's all over the map. I
by the way I thought everyone was
copying um Jason Huang and having 60
direct reports. That is definitely not
true. He is an N of one on that. And
like Anton Helmley has five direct
reports. I had 10, my tea has 15. So,
it's a little bit all over the map. If I
were you, I would think about that. What
do you want your span of control to be?
And I would have it as wide as you can
tolerate. As you scale from 100 to a,000
employees, all those layers in there
really will slow you down. So, you want
to keep it as flat as you can. The other
thing I liked about that we're thinking
about Teams is they were definitely
starting to bring in some been there,
done that people. The whole team wasn't
been there, done that. The way HubSpot
ended up is we had about half been there
done that and half homegrown and VCs try
to jam you full of been there done that.
I like that balance having a little bit
of both. The homegrown talent is
underrated on your teams most likely. We
also talked about just managing the
chaos like they're growing crazy. They
have so much opportunity. Um it's just a
hurricane of of input coming into them.
And a couple things, couple hacks I
liked. Anton is really good on Twitter
by the way. If you don't follow him,
he's really good. I like that every
Monday morning he has a 15minute meeting
with a couple of his staff members and
they brainstorm on tweets. So, he's not
just coming up with that
extemporaneously. He's thought about it
a little bit and he's very good at it.
Most of them, or at least I had a no
meaning day where I could actually think
and get some room and work on projects.
I think that's a good hack. I had it on
Fridays for a while. Everyone thought I
was taking a long weekend. I moved it to
Wednesdays. And they're going to have to
get good at saying no. Like I I was
working on saying no. So I made myself
this hat, my no hat, and I had a no
shirt, too. And I think startups are
much much more likely to die of
overeating and starvation. That's
probably true of yours. You might need
your own no hat. You know, speaking of
chaos,
I asked them, are they 996? And they are
both 996 plus. Um, and I think that's
interesting. I've asked all the CEOs
I've been interviewing. and it's been 10
so far and the early stage startups are
all doing 996 and the bigger ones aren't
and I think that's probably life in the
fast lane as your employees start having
families and you're hiring people with
families it's just hard to get people in
the office six days a week working 9 to9
but I think keep it going as long as you
can if you're doing 996 I think it's
good I was 996 but I didn't ask my team
to be 996 uh we talked a lot about
Europe these are two amazing companies
in Europe and Europe's So, we started in
Boston. And Boston's a little bit out
like Europe. You're like outside the
echo chamber of um Silicon Valley. And
there's some real pluses and minuses to
being outside of the valley. The pluses
are you end up being a very large fish
in a very small pond, which can help.
And you have really good access to
talent and not a lot of competition for
that talent. So, real pluses. Um, the
minuses we found out at HubSpot and
they're going to find out is inside of
Boston there's just not a lot of scale
tech companies. So, we had a hard time
finding executives who had seen that
movie on that next level of scale. Like
we took a couple people from Akami and
that worked out, but it was pretty lean
and so we started hiring execs out in
San Francisco. So, real pluses and
minuses to being in a big city. If I had
to do HubSpot over again, by the way,
you didn't ask, but uh I would have we
were in Boston, I'd have a big office in
Boston, big office in San Francisco,
then another big office in, I don't
know, Nashville or Denver or Toronto
would be pretty good where you can hire
lots and lots of people for less money
and have them be a little bit more loyal
than, let's say, in your San Francisco
office. I wouldn't let everybody work
from home. I'd have [music] three big
hubs. Okay, we wound up obviously
talking about Europe. They're both in
Europe. Really encouraging for Europe.
world could use more Silicon Valleys and
the world could use, you know, a vibrant
European entrepreneurial scene. [music]
I love to hear from them that the
engineering schools are chock full of
kids that want to start companies. I
think that's going to be good for the
world and good for [music] Europe. So,
I'm excited about that. I hope you
enjoyed the episode. I really liked it.
These two are great. I will see you on
the next episode of Long Strange Trip.
>> [music]